Update FAQs for Spyder 6 and further related install guide tweaks (#418)
spyder-ide/spyder-docs: doc/faq.rst

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I install Spyder?
   :name: install-spyder

   The easiest way to use Spyder is with our standalone installer, which comes with everything you need to get started in an all-in-one package.
   Download it from the `Spyder Download Page`_.

   .. _Spyder Download Page: https://www.spyder-ide.org/download

   For more information, visit our :ref:`install-guide`.

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I install Spyder on Windows Subsystem for Linux 2 (WSL2)?
   :name: install-wsl2

   If you already installed Spyder on your Windows machine, you do not need to reinstall it on a WSL2-based Linux environment to run your code there.

>    Instead, just create a new Conda or venv/virtualenv environment (system Python without a venv **not** recommended), then install Spyder-Kernels into that environment with e.g. ``conda install spyder-kernels``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Instead, just create a new Conda or venv/virtualenv environment (using system Python without a venv is **not** recommended), then install Spyder-Kernels into that environment with e.g. ``conda install spyder-kernels``.
```

I think these changes make the sentence easier to read

>    You must manually install ``ipython_genutils`` with e.g. ``conda install ipython_genutils``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is outdated now.

   Insert the absolute path of :file:`remotemachine.json` into the :guilabel:`Connection file` field.
   If you mapped ``W:`` as mentioned in above note, the path should be :file:`W:/home/{username}/remotemachine.json`.
   A new console will open in Spyder, running in the Linux environment.
   Try running ``!ls -la`` and see if it lists your WSL home folder.
   If you run ``exit()`` from Spyder, the kernel running on Linux will be stopped.

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I update Spyder using the standalone installer?
   :name: update-standalone

   An updater is built right into the standalone-installed Spyder, and will check for updates when starting the application and prompt you when one is available.
   You can also trigger an on-demand check for updates via :menuselection:`Help --> Check for updates`.
   Simply click through the prompts to confirm and install the update.

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I update Spyder using conda?
   :name: update-conda

   From the command line (or Anaconda Prompt on Windows), run:

   .. code-block:: shell

>       conda update anaconda

Author: Seems we both missed a spot...

```suggestion
      conda update anaconda  # ONLY IF USING THE ANACONDA BASE ENVIRONMENT
```

   It will run the kernel as a subprocess and create a file named :file:`remotemachine.json` in your WSL home folder.

   Finally, under the options menu of Spyder's :ref:`panes-console`, select :guilabel:`Connect to existing kernel` as described in :ref:`panes-console-external`.
   Insert the absolute path of :file:`remotemachine.json` into the :guilabel:`Connection file` field.
   If you mapped ``W:`` as mentioned in above note, the path should be :file:`W:/home/{username}/remotemachine.json`.
   A new console will open in Spyder, running in the Linux environment.
   Try running ``!ls -la`` and see if it lists your WSL home folder.

>    If you run ``exit()`` from Spyder, the kernel running on Linux will be stopped.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this is correct because I think kernels not started by Spyder can't be killed. Could you check if I'm right?

Author: At least when testing with a local kernel and the above start command (couldn't easily test via SSH), I can confirm the kernel process is indeed killed when typing `exit()` from Spyder.

> .. dropdown:: Q: How do I update Spyder using the standalone installers?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. dropdown:: Q: How do I update Spyder using the standalone installer?
```

In the first FAQ you talked about `installer` and not `installers`. Perhaps we should be consistent about that?

   :name: update-standalone

   An updater is built right into the standalone-installed Spyder, and will check for updates when starting the application and prompt you when one is available.

>    You can also trigger a on-demand check for updates via :menuselection:`Help --> Check for updates`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can also trigger an on-demand check for updates via :menuselection:`Help --> Check for updates`.
```

Seems missing.

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I run Spyder?
   :name: run-spyder

>    With Spyder installed standalone (recommended) or via a Conda-based method, it installs a shortcut so you can launch it right from your normal operating system application launcher (the Start menu on Windows, Spotlight/the Applications folder on macOS, or your distro's launcher on Linux).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   With Spyder installed standalone (recommended) or via a Conda-based method, a shortcut is created so you can run it right from your normal operating system application launcher (the Start menu on Windows, Spotlight/the Applications folder on macOS, or your distro's launcher on Linux).
```

Avoid repeating `installed`/`installs` and `launch`/`launcher`.

   Yes!
   With `Binder`_, you can work with a fully functional copy of Spyder that runs right in your web browser.

>    Visit the `Spyder Binder`_ to get started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Visit the `Spyder Binder`_ page to get started.
```

Sounds better to me like this.

Reviewer: I also think we should add a note to mention that this is a temp environment and all code edited on it will be lost when the page is closed.

Author: ```suggestion
   Visit the `Spyder Binder`_ page to get started.
   
   .. caution::
   
      This is a temporary environment, and any code or data you create will be lost once you close your browser tab or navigate away from the page.
```

   .. _Binder: https://mybinder.org/
   .. _Spyder Binder: https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/spyder-ide/binder-environments/spyder-stable?urlpath=git-pull%3Frepo%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fgithub.com%252Fspyder-ide%252FSpyder-Workshop%26urlpath%3Ddesktop%252F%26branch%3Dmaster

   .. image:: /images/installation/installation-spyder-binder.png
      :alt: Spyder running on Binder

.. dropdown:: Q: What are the system requirements for Spyder? How resource-intensive is it?
   :name: run-system-reqs

   Spyder works on modern versions of Windows, macOS and Linux (see the table below for recommended versions).
   It typically uses relatively minimal CPU when idle, and 0.5 GB - 1 GB of RAM, depending on how long you've been using it and how many files, projects, panes and consoles you have open.
   It should work on any system with a dual-core or better x64 processor and at least 4 GB of RAM, although 8 GB is *strongly* recommended for best performance when running other applications.

>    The code you run, such as scientific computation and deep learning models, may require additional resources beyond this baseline for Spyder itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The code you run, such as scientific computations and deep learning models, may require additional resources beyond this baseline for Spyder itself.
```

Seems missing.

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I get Spyder to work with my existing Python packages/environment?
   :name: using-existing-environment

>    You can open a new console in an existing Conda or Pyenv environment using the :guilabel:`New console in environment` submenu of the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu or the top-level context menu of the :ref:`panes-console` pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can open a new console in an existing Conda or Pyenv environment using the :guilabel:`New console in environment` submenu of the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu or the tabs context menu of the :ref:`panes-console` pane.
```

I think that will make simpler for users to find that menu.

Author: ```suggestion
   You can open a new console in an existing Conda or Pyenv environment using the :guilabel:`New console in environment` submenu of the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu or the tab context menu of the :ref:`panes-console` pane.
```

>    You can manually add other virtual environments not located at standard paths, as well as change the default environment for new :ref:`panes-console`\s, in the the :guilabel:`Python interpreter` section of Spyder's Preferences.

Author: ```suggestion
   You can manually add other virtual environments not located at standard paths, as well as change the default environment for new :ref:`panes-console`\s, in the :guilabel:`Python interpreter` section of Spyder's Preferences.
```

>    To work with an existing environment in Spyder, change the default Python interpreter for new :ref:`panes-console`\s to point to this environment.

Reviewer: I think this should be updated to also mention the new `Consoles > New console in environment` menu.

Furthermore, that should be the first option listed here to work with different envs because it's more flexible than changing the main interpreter.

Author: Implementing this in a new suggestion since this one did not capture the relevant lines.

>    To do so, open the :guilabel:`Python interpreter` section of Spyder's preferences (:menuselection:`Tools --> Preferences`, or :menuselection:`Spyder --> Preferences` on macOS).

Author: Added this in a separate suggestion covering the relevant lines.

```suggestion
   You can open a new console in an existing Conda or Pyenv environment using the :guilabel:`New console in environment` submenu of the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu or the top-level context menu of the :ref:`panes-console` pane.

   You can manually add other virtual environments not located at standard paths, as well as change the default environment for new :ref:`panes-console`\s, in the the :guilabel:`Python interpreter` section of Spyder's Preferences.
   This can be quickly accessed by clicking the current environment name in Spyder's status bar, then :guilabel:`Change default environment in Preferences...`.
```

   .. note::

>       If you installed a :ref:`install-conda` to a non-default path, or are using a virtual environment managed by a tool other than ``pyenv``, your environments likely won't be listed.

Reviewer: This is not entirely correct because now people can introduce their conda path in `Main interpreter > Conda executable`. So, we should mention that here.

Author: Again, making a separate suggestion that actually captures the relevant lines.

>       Instead, use the text box or the :guilabel:`Select file` button to enter the path to the Python interpreter you want to use.

Author: (Made as a separate suggestion to capture the relevant lines)

```suggestion
      If you installed a :ref:`install-conda` to a non-standard path, or are using a virtual environment managed by a tool other than ``pyenv``, your environments likely won't be listed by default.
      For you the former, you can specify the path to the Conda/Mamba executable under :menuselection:`Conda executable --> Use a custom Conda/Mamba/Micromamba executable`.
      It is located at :file:`{BASE INSTALL DIRECTORY}/Scripts/conda.exe` on Windows, and :file:`{BASE INSTALL DIRECTORY}/bin/conda` on other platforms.

      Otherwise, use the text box or the :guilabel:`Select file` button to manually add the path to the Python interpreter you want to use.
```

   .. note::

      If you installed a :ref:`install-conda` to a non-standard path, or are using a virtual environment managed by a tool other than ``pyenv``, your environments likely won't be listed by default.

>       For you the former, you can specify the path to the Conda/Mamba executable under :menuselection:`Conda executable --> Use a custom Conda/Mamba/Micromamba executable`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      For the former, you can specify the path to the Conda/Mamba executable under :menuselection:`Conda executable --> Use a custom Conda/Mamba/Micromamba executable` in the Preferences section mentioned above.
```

* `you` seems unnecessary.
* It's not clear enough where `Conda executable` is located.

Author: ```suggestion
      For the former, you can specify the path to the Conda/Mamba executable under :menuselection:`Conda executable --> Use a custom Conda/Mamba/Micromamba executable` in the :guilabel:`Python interpreter` section of Spyder's Preferences.
```

      :align: left
      :start: 306

   If you want to use other packages in Spyder that don't come with our installer, you need to have your own Python distribution installed; we recommend `Miniforge`_ or another Conda-based option.

>    For Spyder to recognize your environments automatically, you should use a Conda-based distribution with its default install path.

Reviewer: `with its default install path` is not necessary anymore, according to what I said above.

Author: Well...it _is_ still true, as Spyder still won't "recognize your environments automatically"--it requires manually setting the Conda executable path, which isn't an entirely trivial step for many scientific users and is more effort (and potential for issues both user side and Spyder side) than just using the default paths.

At most, we could keep the recommendation while leaving the door open for manual configuration:

```suggestion
   For Spyder to recognize your environments automatically without manual configuration, you should use a Conda-based distribution with its default install path.
```

      :align: left
      :start: 306

   If you want to use other packages in Spyder that don't come with our installer, you need to have your own Python distribution installed; we recommend `Miniforge`_ or another Conda-based option.
   For Spyder to recognize your environments automatically without manual configuration, you should use a Conda-based distribution with its default install path.

   .. _Miniforge: https://conda-forge.org/download/

   Create a new Conda environment containing ``spyder-kernels`` and the packages that you want to use.
   For example, if you want to use ``scikit-learn``, open your terminal (or Anaconda Prompt on Windows) and run the following command:

   .. code-block:: shell

      conda create -n my-env -c conda-forge spyder-kernels scikit-learn

>    Finally, you can open a console in the ``my-env`` environment by selecting it in the :guilabel:`New console in environment` submenu of the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu or the top-level context menu of the :ref:`panes-console` pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Finally, you can open a console in the ``my-env`` environment by selecting it in the :guilabel:`New console in environment` submenu of the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu or the tabs context menu of the :ref:`panes-console` pane.
```

Same suggestion as before.

Author: ```suggestion
   Finally, you can open a console in the ``my-env`` environment by selecting it in the :guilabel:`New console in environment` submenu of the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu or the tab context menu of the :ref:`panes-console` pane.
```

   You can also change Spyder's default Python interpreter for new consoles following the instructions in :ref:`the above answer <using-existing-environment>`.

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I use plugins with Spyder (e.g. Spyder-Notebook, Spyder-Terminal, Spyder-Unittest)?
   :name: using-plugins

>    First, you currently need to be running Spyder in your own Conda or virtual environment, not via our standalone installer (however, it will support plugins via a built-in graphical plugin manager starting in Spyder 6.2).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   First, you currently need to be have Spyder installed in your own Conda or virtual environment, not via our standalone installer (however, it will support plugins via a built-in graphical plugin manager starting in Spyder 6.2).
```

`running` is confusing because it could be interpreted as "Spyder must be started before installing plugins".

Author: ```suggestion
   First, you currently need to have Spyder installed in your own Conda or virtual environment, not via our standalone installer (this limitation will be removed in Spyder 6.2, which will feature a built-in graphical plugin manager).
```

>    Finally, connect Spyder to this ``my-env`` environment by changing Spyder's default Python interpreter, following the instructions in :ref:`the above answer <using-existing-environment>`.

Reviewer: This should also be updated to mention the `New console in env` menu.

Author: ```suggestion
   Finally, you can open a console in the ``my-env`` environment by selecting it in the :guilabel:`New console in environment` submenu of the :guilabel:`Consoles` menu or the top-level context menu of the :ref:`panes-console` pane.
   You can also change Spyder's default Python interpreter for new consoles following the instructions in :ref:`the above answer <using-existing-environment>`.
```

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I use plugins with Spyder (e.g. Spyder-Notebook, Spyder-Terminal, Spyder-Unittest)?
   :name: using-plugins

>    First, you'll currently need to have a non-standalone version of Spyder installed (a built-in graphical plugin manager will be included in Spyder 6.2).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   First, you currently need to have Spyder in a conda or venv environment (for the standalone installer is not possible to add additional plugins, but a graphical plugin manager will be included in Spyder 6.2).
```

Make this sentence easier to understand (I think the current wording is a bit hard for non-native speakers).

Author: The syntax was a bit tortured and non-idiomatic, so I rewrote it further

```suggestion
   First, you currently need to be running Spyder in your own Conda or virtual environment, not via our standalone installer (however, it will support plugins via a built-in graphical plugin manager starting in Spyder 6.2).
```

   :name: using-code-cells

   To create a cell in Spyder's :ref:`panes-editor`, type ``# %%`` (or ``#%%`) in your script.
   Each ``# %%`` will make a new cell.
   To run a cell, press :kbd:`Shift-Enter` (while your cursor is focused on it) or use the :guilabel:`Run current cell` button in Spyder's toolbar.

   .. image:: /images/faq/faq-cells.png
      :alt: Spyder showing code cells

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I clear all variables before executing my code?
   :name: using-clear-variables

   Check the option :guilabel:`Remove all variables before execution` of the :guilabel:`Configuration per file` dialog under the :guilabel:`Run` menu.

   .. image:: /images/faq/faq-remove-variables.png
      :alt: Spyder's remove all variables run configuration

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I run my code in a dedicated console or control other run settings?
   :name: using-dedicated-console

   Select the appropriate option in the :guilabel:`Custom configuration` section of the :guilabel:`Configuration per file` dialog under the :guilabel:`Run` menu, or configure global defaults for all files in the :guilabel:`Run` pane of Spyder's :guilabel:`Preferences`.

>    If you want to save and quickly switch between multiple groups of settings, you can save them to separate presets by setting a different :guilabel:`Name` under :guilabel:`Configuration properties`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If you want to quickly switch between multiple groups of settings, you can save them to separate presets by setting a different :guilabel:`Name` under :guilabel:`Configuration properties`.
```

Avoid repeating `save` in this clause and the next.

   .. image:: /images/faq/faq-run-options.png
      :alt: Spyder showing run configuration options

.. dropdown:: Q: How do I run my code in an external terminal?
   :name: using-external-terminal

   As of Spyder 6, there is now a dedicated :guilabel:`Run in external terminal` item in the :guilabel:`Run` menu to do just that.

>    You can also now set separate run configuration options for an external terminal versus the built-in :ref:`panes-console`, per-file by selecting the :guilabel:`Runner` to configure, locally in the :guilabel:`Run configuration per file` dialog and globally in the :guilabel:`Run` pane in Spyder's :guilabel:`Preferences`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can also now set separate run configuration options for the external terminal locally by selecting the corresponding :guilabel:`Runner` in the :guilabel:`Run configuration per file` dialog, and globally in the :guilabel:`Run` entry in Spyder's :guilabel:`Preferences`.
```

Make this sentence flow better (I don't know if you'll agree with my suggestions, but the current wording is hard to grasp).

Author: As a user I would interpret "locally" to mean on my local machine versus a remote machine, I would have no idea as a user that it is (presumably?) intended to mean "for a specific file" (or inside of Spyder"?). I changed "globally" from my original to "for all files" to match and be clearer as well.

```suggestion
   You can also now set separate external terminal-specific run configuration options for the current file by selecting the corresponding :guilabel:`Runner` in the :guilabel:`Run configuration per file` dialog, and for all files in the :guilabel:`Run` entry in Spyder's :guilabel:`Preferences`.
```

   Spyder is 100% free and open source; there is no paid version or prohibition on commercial use.
   It is developed by its international user community, and supported by its users through `OpenCollective`_ and by its generous sponsoring organizations, including `Quansight`_ and `NumFOCUS`_.
   Our source code, standalone installers and most of our distribution methods (Pip/PyPI, Linux distros, MacPorts, WinPython, etc) can be freely redistributed, used and modified by anyone, for any purpose, including commercial use.
   For more details about the situation with Anaconda, see :ref:`anaconda-license`.

   .. _OpenCollective: https://opencollective.com/spyder
   .. _Quansight: https://www.quansight.com/
   .. _NumFOCUS: https://numfocus.org/

.. dropdown:: Q: What does Anaconda's commercial licensing restrictions mean for Spyder?
   :name: anaconda-license

   If you installed Spyder via any method other than the Anaconda or Miniconda distributions, or install it from the ``conda-forge`` channel with those two distributions, you are not affected by any restrictions.

>    If you use a copy of Spyder installed by default with the Anaconda distribution, or installed from the ``defaults``/``anaconda`` channel with the Anaconda or Miniconda distributions, Anaconda's `Terms of Service`_ have restrictions on larger (>200 employee) for-profit enterprises using Anaconda on a large scale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If you use a copy of Spyder installed by default with the Anaconda distribution, or installed from the ``defaults``/``anaconda`` channel, Anaconda's `Terms of Service`_ have restrictions on larger (>200 employee) for-profit enterprises on a large scale.
```

Make this sentence less verbose.

   However, these terms only apply to the package infrastructure (the full Anaconda distribution and the ``defaults`` conda channel).

>    Instead, you can simply download the similar `Miniforge`_ distribution, which is 100% open source and nearly identical to Miniconda (and only different from Anaconda in that it does not bundling the Python packages installed by default in the Anaconda ``base`` environment, which we recommend you avoid using anyway given any problems here can break your whole installation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Instead, you can simply download the similar `Miniforge`_ distribution, which is 100% open source and nearly identical to Miniconda (and only different from Anaconda in that it does not bundle the Python packages installed by default in the Anaconda ``base`` environment, which we recommend you avoid using anyway given any problems in it can break your whole installation).
```

* Fix syntax error.
* Improve clarity a bit.
